EXPERIMENT NO : 7

AIM : To perform remote login using telnet server
Telnet is a protocol that allows you to connect to remote computers (called hosts) over a TCP/IP
network (such as the internet). Using telnet client software on your computer, you can make a
connection to a telnet server (that is, the remote host). Once your telnet client establishes a
connection to the remote host, your client becomes a virtual terminal, allowing you to communicate
with the remote host from your computer. In most cases, you'll need to log into the remote host,
which requires that you have an account on that system. Occasionally, you can log in as guest or
public without having an account.
Telnet clients are available for all major operating systems.
Command-line telnet clients are built into most versions of macOS, Windows, Unix, and Linux. To
use these clients, go to their respective command lines (that is, the Terminal application in macOS,
the shell in Unix or Linux, or the DOS prompt in Windows), and then enter:
telnet host port
Replace host with the address of the service, and port with the port number on which the service
runs (for example, 80 for http).
What is Telnet?
Telnet, developed in 1969, is a protocol that provides a command line interface for communication
with a remote device or server, sometimes employed for remote management but also for initial
device setup like network hardware. Telnet stands for Teletype Network, but it can also be used as a
verb; 'to telnet' is to establish a connection using the Telnet protocol.
Is Telnet secure?
Because it was developed before the mainstream adaptation of the internet, Telnet on its own does
not employ any form of encryption, making it outdated in terms of modern security. It has largely
been overlapped by Secure Shell (SSH) protocol, at least on the public internet.
How does Telnet work?
Telnet provides users with a bidirectional interactive text-oriented communication system utilizing a
virtual terminal connection over 8 byte. User data is interspersed in-band with telnet control
information over the transmission control protocol (TCP). Often, Telnet was used on a terminal to
execute functions remotely.
The user connects to the server by using the Telnet protocol, which means entering Telnet into a
command prompt by following this syntax: telnet hostname port. The user then executes commands
on the server by using specific Telnet commands into the Telnet prompt. To end a session and log
off, the user ends a Telnet command with Telnet.

What are common uses for Telnet?
Telnet can be used to test or troubleshoot remote web or mail servers, as well as for remote access
to trusted internal networks.
When does telnet not connect ?
1) a network or host firewall is dropping incoming connections
2) the remote machine is down
3) network connectivity between the client and server is unavailable for some reason.
In this case, further troubleshooting is required, such as verifying with a traceroute from the client
side where the connection is interrupted or getting in touch with the administrator of the remote host
to ask whether the remote service is running and allowed by any firewall in between

SSH
The program SSH (Secure Shell) provides an encrypted channel for logging into another computer
over a network, executing commands on a remote computer, and moving files from one computer to
another. SSH provides strong host-to-host and user authentication as well as secure encrypted
communications over the internet.

Secure Shell capabilities
Functions that SSH enables include:
• Secure remote access to SSH-enabled network systems or devices, for users as well as
automated processes;
• secure and interactive file transfer sessions;
• automated and secured file transfers;
• secure issuance of commands on remote devices or systems; and
• secure management of network infrastructure components.

STEPS :

1) Open terminal and type telnet hostname -- ( ip address of the computer to which
you wish to connect)
2) Enter the username and the password .
3)After authentication you will login to the remote computer
4)After this login you can browse the remote computer from your command line.
You can perform certain operations like viewing / creating /deleting the files and
folders of the remote computer, setting file access permissions, etc.
